# PSO_ANN
Swarm Intelligence is a branch of Artificial Intelligence where we observe nature and try to learn how different biological phenomena can be imitated in a computer system to optimize the scheduling algorithms. In swarm intelligence, we focus on the collective behavior of simple organisms such as ants,fishes or birds and their interaction with the environment.

Proposed in 1995 by J. Kennedy an R.Eberhart, the article “Particle Swarm Optimization” became very popular due to this continue optimization process allowing variations to multi targets and more. Consisting in the constant search of best solution, the method moves the particles with a certain velocity calculated in every iteration. Each particle’s movement has the influence of his own the best known position and also the best known position in the space-search, known as the global best position. The final result expected is that the particle swarm converge to the best solution. It’s important to mention that PSO doesn’t use Gradient Descent, so it can be used to non linear problems once it doesn’t require that the problem have to be differentiable.

In this repository we will be trying to implement the basic PSO algorithm as given below using Matlab from scratch. The repository includes two sub-folders namely 'pso-basic' and 'pso-func'. Any beginner is recommended to start at 'pso-basic'. To understand the inspiration behind the algorithm and the mathematics governing the model have a look at the original paper.
